# Capstone-Project__Machine-Learning__Regression
Let me introduce my self, I am Faris Rasyid the switcher career from Civil Engineering to Data Science and hopefully could combine both of that.
I am Purwadhika student Data Scientist Program batch 2104 and this is my mini project capstone and my first project in machine learning, i hope this could be educational for readers, and could be space for sharing, and open to criticsm.
Lets start from 

## **Overview**

The bike-sharing system is a new generation of traditional bike rental where the entire process, from membership, rental, and return of the bike, is automated. Through this system, users can easily rent a bike from a certain position and return it at another position. Currently, there are more than 500 bike-sharing programs around the world consisting of more than 500 thousand bikes. Currently, there is great interest in this system due to its important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.
Apart from the interesting real-world applications of bike-sharing systems, the characteristics of the data generated by these systems make them interesting to research. Unlike other transportation services such as buses or subways, trip duration, departure and arrival positions are explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns the bike-sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used to sense mobility in the city. Therefore, it is expected that important events in the city can be detected by monitoring this data.

## **Problem Statement**

The simplicity of bike-sharing systems in bicycle rental does not dictate the number of renters, although these traditional bicycle rentals play an important role in traffic, environmental and health issues. So it is possible that the bicycles provided for rental are not used, which leads to increased maintenance costs to renew the bicycles. **Since the ease of rental still does not lead to more renters and may increase maintenance costs, it is necessary to investigate other factors during rental**, such as rental time, air humidity, air temperature, and the season during rental.

## **Goals**

From this problem, the bike-sharing system needs a tool to predict the number of renters based on these factors **so that the bike-sharing system can streamline the number of bikes offered for rent**. 
Predicting the number of renters will streamline the number of bikes offered so that the increase in maintenance costs due to unused bikes can be reduced.
Analytical Approach
So, what we need to do is analyze the data to find patterns in the features that differentiate the number of renters based on the conditions. 

Next, we will build a regression model that will help the bike-sharing system to provide a renter prediction tool, which will be useful to determine how many bikes to rent out.
Metrics Evaluation
The evaluation metrics to be used are RMSE, MAE, and MAPE :
 - **RMSE (Root Mean Square Error)**:
RMSE is a measure of how well the regression model fitted the actual data.
It measures the extent of the difference between the actual value and the value predicted by the model.
RMSE is calculated by taking the square root of the mean square of the error (the difference between the actual value and the predicted value).
The smaller the RMSE value, the better the model is at predicting the data.
 - **MAE (Mean Absolute Error)**:
MAE is an evaluation metric that measures the average of the absolute errors (unsquared) between the actual value and the value predicted by the model.
MAE provides information about the extent of the error in the prediction, regardless of whether the error is larger or smaller than the actual value.
MAE also describes the extent to which the regression model actually approximates the actual values.
 - **MAPE (Mean Absolute Percentage Error)**:
MAPE is an evaluation metric that measures the average of the absolute percentage errors between the actual value and the value predicted by the model.
MAPE is useful for measuring the extent of the prediction error as a percentage of the actual value.
It is often used in the context of forecasting and helps in understanding the degree of accuracy of the prediction relative to the actual magnitude.<br>

A good understanding of these three metrics is important in evaluating how well a regression model performs. Each metric has its own utility depending on the context of the problem and preference in error measurement. The smaller the RMS value.

for the next story you could see my yupiter notebook
